100 Mindsets and Insights for Creating Desired Future
-----------------------------------------------------
Note: These following items are curated for next 5-50 years.

1. The startup motto "Idea is cheap, execution is everything" is obsolete. 
The more fitting one in AI era is "Execution is becoming commodity, unique 
insight is priceless".

2. Though personalization is a norm, everything is prepared from the server 
side but the next form is individualization where everyhing is built just for 
you, and on your device, locally. 

3. Once edge devices are enough powerful and can run intelligence locally,
More data will never leave the devices, causing the death of AdTech.
MarTech might shrink significantly. 

4. Moduralization will become the next wave of business transformation after
the adoption of AI to stay relevant in the era of autonomous businesses.

5. Multipolarity creates huge global gaps for inefficiency, anyone filling
this gap has a potential to create trillion dollars business.

6. All activities in this world can be encapsulated in a single word: 
"collaboration". And all activities in economies can be encapsulated in 3 words:
Consumer, supplier, and regulator. If you want to play big, you need to understand 
these 4 words deeply.

7. Knowledge inspires awareness. Awareness inspires desire. Desire inspires demand. 
Economic demands can be engineered through knowledge distribution.

8. All businesses are for satisfying economic demands through solving problems. 
As executions are becoming cheaper, the main factor to successfully develop 
and run business becomes how deep you can understand the chosen problem you want to solve.

9. Late launched product is not always a bad product if your product is well
product-market fit. However, the longer invested time, the risker risk of wasting time
and this can be mitigate through having the precise compass. 

10. Compass means all things you have for navigating the product and business development.
To make the accurate compass, you need to identify overlapping insights from 
many perspectives and from many sources. The more overlapping found, the more 
accurate the compass can be. 

11. There's not always the correct development strategy for your business but only
suitable to your condition. Your available capitals (financial, knowledge, talent,
connection, and time) define the options you can exercise for designing your strategy.

12. When you are ambitious, you need to accept that there will be some costs
that you have to pay. People will don't understand you. People will doubt about 
what you do. You will be lonely. And some areas of life will be imbalanced.

13. There are always few people on this world that will understand you. No matter
how ambitious or odd your ideas are. People with similar minds will naturally 
attract each other but it won't be possible if you are not discoverable first. 
Keep sharind your thoughts and ideas regularly.

14. You need to engrave "Impossibility is not in my dictionary" to your soul. 
This doesn't mean everything it is possible, but a trick to unleash your brain 
to explore all possibilities. Don't be shy about your thoughts and ideas.

15. If something is impossible, then just move yourself to a place that will 
make it possible. Though that sounds simple but the real trick of it is about 
creating inevitability through making enough conditions to make it happens.

16. When your health is in best condition, you can boost your productivity up
to 500%. And prime time often be on morning from 8AM-11AM. Afternoon is time to 
focus and is free from distraction. Move intense discussions to morning.

17. No matter how advanced the technologies will be, the nature of human 
won't be changed. The more you understand about it, the better you can leverage
using powers of communities and societies.

18. The further you can see into the future, the lesser competitions you will
be facing with. Trying to see the next 5-20 years into the future will give you
some opportunity and lesser pressure to develop something competitive and 
groundbreaking.

19. As time goes by and you get older, you may change your dream. You might be 
sad and feel the failure. It is perfectly fine, and you are not failed. In fact, 
the old dream will never be discarded. It will sit back in your heart, waiting 
the right moment to come back, eventually.

20. You can have many dreams, and it is very healthy to do so. Dreams are special
because once you set label anything as "dream" it means you are not obligated to
it and you can go far on it as much as you want. Just go all in to imagine your
dreams, never set boundaries for them.

21. The more dreams you have, the bigger detection surface for your mind to 
subconsciously scan for relevant things, allowing you to see more opportunities 
and ability to look deeper into the future. Though the future might not happen 
like what you see in the dreams but you will realize what you have to do to 
make it happens.

22. There is a theory saying that 5 people you spend most time with will shape 
your future be. However, it is not entirely true. Your future is actually get 
shaped by the most frequent themes of information you consume each day, through 
people, social media, work, hobbies, and your surround environments. Consume
information wisely if you want most accurate desired future.

23. You should spend at least 2-3 years for your first job if the culture in 
company is okay. Though salary is important but the completed domain knowledge
is even more important. Once you have at least 3-5 completed work cycle 
experiences, then you can get 2-3 times more salary in the next company.

24. Being skilled and deep at a single domain is no longer enough. To survive 
in the current era, you need to be good at 2 impactful business domains. First 
domain is digital tech, second domain is either manufacturing or servicing. 
Creativity and human skills are only good as multiplier of the base domain.
With no impactful base presents, any result of multiplication will be zero. 
It basically means that AI can replace you completely.

25. To develop the business, you have 2 ways: 1) Making it as side project and
treat it like part-time business. This is best approach to reduce risks and give
you chances to explore things with less pressure. And if you fail, you won't 
lose much. 2) Making it as full-time job and give all in. This is not recommended
because it is too risky in the current era. 

26. Best asset is not money, crypto currencies, real estate asset, but the money
generating machine, the business. Though it is most risky to create a successful 
one but it is a kind of asset that give you biggest leverage. 

27. You can start business in your mind by simulating approaches to solve valuable
problems. Try to draw your ideas on papers and break them down into parts. Then 
battle test the concepts. Get people trying to kill your concepts then continue
from the survived ones. It is better to fail your business on papers than 
wasting your money, time and other resources.

28. Business development has phases: 1) Ideate and explore, 2) Develop MVP 
(Minimum Viable Product), 3) Register and launch, 4) Build systems to sustain 
operations, 5) Build culture and scale, 6) Succession or exit.

29. There are 4 big phases of economic landscape evolutions. Now we are in 
the phase of building more tools, soon the world will focus more on easing the 
collaborations between people and organization. The third phase is regeneration 
which is about fixing the world damages. The last phase is either utopia or 
dystopia, where results of phases 2 and 3 determine the exact last phase.

30. The root causes that shrink the number of available job positions are not 
about automation, AI, and global recession but the ineffectiveness of generating 
new solutions for problems. Though there are infinite amount of problems waiting 
to be solved, the number of people daring to think, explore, design and create 
solutions are so limited. Maybe there are just fewer than 0.1% of all populations.

31. If we can turn all the needs for repairing this world and solving inefficiencies
into job positions, then we will at least have new job positions for 10 billions 
people world wide. And the number will grow even bigger if we include Mars and
other planets in the system.

32. UN and world institutions are slowly failing because they cannot align 
global incentives well. Though internet should help their goodwill reaching 
out to everyone but greed driven social media platforms just chase major world 
populations away. While the world believes that social media platform era has 
ended, but the gap of unfulfilling needs has grown big enough to allow the 
birth of next platform.

33. If you want to build something so ambitious and powerful, enough to be a 
new kind of world institution, then absolute transparency and neutrality are 
none negotiable qualities that you must build into the heart of that thing 
from begining.

34. New kind of currency will inevitably emerge if the current system of 
currencies fail to encourage the fair distribution of resources and influences. 
The demands may shrink but they never fade. If people run out of money to spend
for things, ancient methods of exchange might be reintroduced.

35. Don't see thing just how it is, try to figure out patterns, systems and 
machanics inside it to realize how it works and how it creates the values. 
Curiousity won't happen without proper frames to search for the understanding. 

36. Many things in this world share similar patterns. The level of similarity
among them is depended on how well you can simpify and design their abstract 
forms. The more abstract forms you can see off of them, the better you can 
leverage them into your advantages.

37. Climate resilience is increasingly becoming the major security factor for 
all businesses. The businesses must be able to survive floods, fires, droughts, 
heat, disease, epandemic, power/internet outages, and more. They will eventually
be forced to adopt the concepts of moduralization, integration and unification.

38. Consultants as agents of business transformation performers is increasingly
in great demand due to impacts of AI, automation, supply chain relocation, 
and climate risks mitigation. While big enterprises can take care of themselves, 
400 millions SMEs (small and medium enterprises) around the world are left in
the struggles, desperately hoping for consultants to help them.

39. Business transformations involves improving 3 areas: 1) Processes, 2) People
and 3) technologies. Businesses that deeply understand their core values and
have well structured knowledge can have better chances to successfully transform
their businesses. SOP (Standard Operating Procedure) is the very first area that 
transformation processes can kick in.

40. First jobbers in this era have strong technology literacy knowledge, including
the leverage of AI and exceptional creativity. You will get more chances to be 
accepted for job positions if you approach them with clarity that you are hoping 
to help them boost or transforming their businesses using AI and automation. 

41. Recruitment platforms are failing to speak the hidden needs beneath the 
job positions. It is more effective to directly send your resumes via official
channels first then follow with email expressing your willingness to help their 
company. Study their businesses. Search their recent initiatives and ambitions, 
then explain in the email about background knowledges and specific products or 
services that catch your interest and HOW YOU CAN HELP THEM OUT IN 90 DAYS. 
Show your systematic thinking skill as it is most important quality they are 
desperately searching for.

42. Your first salary is a lot cheaper than the paid license (salary) to learn 
things and do real-world experiments. Low salary is okay, just ensure it is 
enough to pay your bills of minimum necessary things. Your only goal is doing 
your best to be domain expert of the industry you are working in. This deep 
knowledge could generate more 2-5 times revenue for your next job change.

43. Working life is about executing plan A, B, or C for each work and manage 
the expectations. Successfully finishing a work is not about creating perfect
results but it actually means trying to meet all key results. If you feel you 
can't finish the work in time, then get the hardest part done first and 
communicate with team to ease up the concern. You won't worry if you have
plan B in mind. If you don't have it, then just create one before you start 
the work and say it clear in front of everyone to prevent the bad surprises.

44. No matter what your role or job position is, it is always good to expand
your world view and business landscape through visiting expos, exhibitions,
summits, seminars/webinars, and community events/gathering. The more and vary
you can see, the bigger number of opportunities you will make. 20+ of all 
combined kinds are enough to give you the necessary experiences.

45. Making a connection with anyone usually starts with initiating a conversation. 
Everyone likes to feel special. Ask them questions allowing them to proudly show 
how expert and insightful they are. Once they are enough showing off, then will
try to ask you back, then it will be your chance to sell yourself. If they don't
ask back, CHALLENGE THEM WITH INSIGHTS that are problems can be solved by their 
business solutions and they will eventually ask you back because they think you 
might be their potential customer/partner. 80%+ success rate.

46. Don't give your business card or contact as default option. Give your social
media profile showing how you live your visions, missions and shared interests
with people you are trying to make connection with. Business cards are passive,
recieved and get forgotten forever. Invite them to observe you, being publicly 
authentic is the cheapest way to create trust and touchpoints for creating next 
meaningful conversations.

47. This world can have new big companies like new Google, new Apple, new SpaceX, 
and new NVDIA, and so many more. If you want to build a business bigger than 
all of those big companies combined, though it sounds insane, but not entirely 
impossible, you need to create the new market giving off collaborative abundance 
to this world and DEFINE THE PROTOCOL for how to utilize that abundance. 
Competitions will become irrelevant before your business because civilization 
can't tolerate two standards because they break collaboration incentives. 

48. All stock markets in this world only have 2 kinds of people: 1) Innovators 
and 2) Spectators. Innovators create and bring new abundances of demands and 
supplies to markets while spectators manage financial capitals to support innovators. 
However, as the compound interest governs world economies, we are growing more 
spectators doing nothing meaningful to this world but only speculate and shift 
the wealth up to few portions of populations, leaving majority of world 
populations endlessly run in rat races without being rewarded meaningfully.

49. Once extractive-driven world economic system favoring spectators reach the 
tipping point, it will create chaos around the world due to either the excessive 
inequality or recession. The post-capital values system will slowly transition 
in to bring in better balances and orders. 

50. All creatures only have 2 goals: 1) Reproduce to spread its populations and
consume the resources to support their living. All humans, all living things,
and all activities in this world look like trivial things under the maximum 
abstraction lens. People realizing this truth will question about their existence 
to find the goals as the core motivation to continue living the lives. If you 
can find an answer for yourself, then you will find your own intrinsic motivation 
that will outlast through all challenges.

51. Constant exposure to luxuries will lead to dullness. Once people cannot find 
other sources of happiness, they will start questioning about life and reason 
to continue living the life. Though experiences shape definitions of happiness, 
their final definitions will eventually be either leaving a legacy to this world
or being remembered after they have passed away.

52. Humans naturally want to be a part of something bigger because it gives a 
sense of security, direction, and purpose to live the life. Though that "something"
might be about joining others to build something or staying with yourself 
imagining something big and you do it personally, every choice you choose will 
leave a legacy and you will be remembered if the thing you do is meaningful.

53. Don't be shy to tell about your dream to people publicly. Don't be sad if 
nobody understands your goodwill. Constantly speaking about your dream slowly 
trains your bravery and subconscious to shape all your actions towards conditions 
making your dream a reality. Decorate all your touchpoints with your dream.

54. Luck is not entirely accidental. It can be fablicated and needs some of 
your effort. Though winning a lottery is like a pure luck but it still requires 
you to buy the ticket. Luck = well-prepared x be in right place x good timing.

55. All words accumulate their powers and influences if they are used very 
often through long period. Invent and own a unique word that represents your
biggest and most ambitious vision. And use it regulary through out all your 
touchpoints. Some people might don't understand your vision but they will 
remember your invented word for sure. This is very first step to create your 
personal branding renting free in people's heads, giving them a topic option
to start a conversation with you.

56. Building relationships with high-value people requires years of visible 
credibility, strategic value-adds on their content, showing up in their physical 
spaces, demonstrating capability publicly, then maintaining strategic distance 
while staying memorable. Desperation repels, strategic scarcity attracts.

57. People may steal ideas but they won't implement the ideas blindlessly. 
Everyone including investors don't want to waste their money. They will observe
you until your business get some tractions before joining the race. However,
don't share your secret sauces and trade secrets before having them signing NDA.

58. Most corporate rarely dare trying to become the big techs. They basically
can't do due to their incentive models and pressure from investors. Becoming a 
big tech requires making deep technologies that democratize the accessibility 
to their monopolized efficiencies. They can't cannibalize themselves. Only 
startups that have nothing to lose can grow and become the big techs.

59. There are many spaces for future new big techs to emerge and democratize 
the service accessibilities. For example, fablication lab, product quality 
assurance, climate disaster management, home-use 360 degree daily safety testkits, 
regenerative farm and fertilizer usage planning, and so many more. All industries 
can have at least one or more big techs.

60. The best competitive advantages come from infrastructure that serves 
multiple purposes across technological eras. Build systems that can adapt to 
new paradigms without requiring full rebuilds. Business will be exponentially 
benefited by the integrated paradigms as multiplication of potential use cases.

61. Building a deep tech requires great courage and long funding. It usually 
takes around 10 years before the maturity (be able to generate revenue). Then 
the next following 5 years is racing against fast followers. If you want to win
the game thoroughly, then plan at least 20 years ahead and own a self-reliant 
supportive ecosystem along the processes to reduce the costs of competitions.

62. It is perfectly fine if you have few hundreds books and just only 10 books
were read in few years. The art of using knowledge is not about pressuring 
yourself to consume it all but being selective at the specific times. Let your 
curiousity leads the selection. Skip some chapters, highlight some lines, write 
some comments, add some book highlighter tapes and draw stars on insights that 
might be ideas for your future business. Just read enough to give you clear 
pictures of the future you want to live in.

63. Self-improvement books are good but if they take more than 30% of all books 
you have then it might signal that you haven't apply enough knowledge from them
yet. Other books can be about business strategies, success/failure stories, odd
global statistics, human nature, future predictions, product and service categories,
international travel guides, regenerations and geopolitics.

64. Great minds often discuss ideas through intellectual sparring. They challenge
each to try harder on exploring everything around the topic. Debates can be intense 
but they never rage at each other because it is useless. Only acceptable condition 
to win the debate is how far you uplift the value of entire conversion. It is 
"Oh so you win.. but I win too because now I know more useful things".

65. Micro-enterprises is theoretically perfect organization structure because it
combines best benefits of both worlds: startup (agility) and corporate (scale). 
However, without unified and real-time flexible central digital platform that 
controls critical areas of managements like cross-team collaboration, knowledge 
sharing, and resource allocation then this ambitious structure is mostly impossible.

66. If automations are applied at the extreme level. Many businesses will shrink 
a lot and one-person businesses will be common, driving most human-driven economies 
on Earth (and Mars + future planets). They act as artists and agents delivering 
hyper personalized products and services. 

67. Hand-eyes coordination stimulates the brain to process information more
effective. Writing on paper makes thinking about things easier. You don't have
to presurre yourself, just write, no format, no structure, write the keywords
down first and you will get anchors for where to start on. The rest things will 
flow in naturally.

68. To lead a change, you can't please and convince everyone to follow you. Be 
selective and only invite good minds and create supportive environment for them
so they can speak louder, live better, be prouder, and make bigger successes. 
Proved success is best penetrative force. Don't waste your precious energy with 
not right people and let the ACCUMULATED GRAVITY IN YOUR COMMUNITY do the job 
inviting those people to join you.

69. This world has many actors. Some are good, some are bad. If the system is
good enough, it always have enough incentives for everyone. Don't play hero
enforcing ethics onto everyone because it won't work. The only way to make it
work is turning yourself to be a silent fixer through designing an ecosystem
encouraging the positive sum outcomes. Though negative outcomes might emerge 
during the processes, if the final weight on positive side is greater then it 
absolutely is okay. Ensure leaving some spaces for gradually and proudly repenting.

70. Digital platform is a kind of thing that creates biggest leverage because
it can reach out to everyone that can access to internet. However, if you want
to build one and want to stick with most flexible techs that will last for next 
decades, then the starter and forever set is Java, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, and 
SQL. Well, SQL is optional, you can skip or choose other kinds of storages 
fitting to your need. Though Java is arguable for its suitability but it will 
give you long term cost saving while ensuring maximum flexibility to handle your 
needs.

71. Searching co-founders of your mission uses a lot of luck. It is not easy
to find one. And everyone has HONEYMOON period, be aware of behavior change. 
Very hyped ones might have red flags. Better ones like regular intellectual 
sparring and have different skill sets. If they just give money and do nothing
then they don't deserve to be called a co-founder, but investor. An odd number 
of team members ensure clear decision-making. And if you are founder, leave 
some buffer in your mind for worst case scenario that you might have to do 
everything alone again. Things might not go well. Everything is temporary. As 
long as you don't give up, there is always a chance.

72. Whenever you found a team. Founder agreement contract must be made and have
it detailed as much as possible. NDA is necessary too. You can create these
2 contracts without the need for registering a company. Once 2 or more full name,
citizen IDs, address, date and signatures are on each document, it becomes 
legally effective. Ensure equity share details are included and founder should 
have 60% or more from total share and the rest is up to you to design. If anyone
insist to have more share, then compensate with salary or other kind of benefits.
Phased equity contribution through vesting schedules is good optional strategy. 

73. It is recommended to hire lawyer to interpret contracts and agreements for 
first 3-5 deals to give you better sense on detecting hidden agendas and 
reading the power dynamic. Once you are confident in your skill, then lawyer
is optional but serious deals should have lawyer checking the contracts. Though 
it might be a bit expensive but it will save you from loss that might be 1000 
times more expensive than the lawyer cost.







