Mindset No.1: 
-------------
The first rule if you want to design and create desired future for yourself. 
This might sound ridiculous but you need to engrave this word into your soul:
"Impossibility word is not defined in my dictionary".
Well, it doesn't mean about everything is always possible, but it is a trick to unlock your brain to be creative at the maximum.
At this stage, don't judge your ideas, just let them flow out, even some might sound weird. 


Mindset no.2:
-------------
Nothing define the failure or the impossibility of your ideas until you actually implement it.
This doesn't mean you can mindlessly doing whatever you want.
You still need brain to calculate the risk, consequences and your acceptable risk level. 
Remember, don't judge your ideas. Only result of your implementation can define their worth.


Mindset no.3
------------
Dealing with impossibility is not easy but not entirely impossible. 
The concept is easy, just move you into an environment to make the impossibility becomes a possibility.
This might mean moving you into a circle of people discussing about things you might need for your ambtions.
This might mean moving you into a place where that knowledge is flowing around.
This might mean moving you to a place so you can focus and randomly ask the AI from many perspectives.
Insight gathering is very first step to tackle with the impossibility. 


Mindset no.4
------------
Ideas never expire but have a strong quality: compounding. 
If you don't like it or not sure if it is feasible, the just let it sit there.
Just never refuse or discard it, as it is a trick to leverage yor subconscious mind to do the important work.
The moment of getting amazing idea is not rooted of having a single source of inspiration.
Instead, it is a moment created from subconsciously connecting many small ideas into a single map of steps and factors to create a possibility.
Which usually happens when you least expect about it, after a few days. 
So, always see ideas as asset that can work like compounding interest. 


Mindset no.5
------------




